For one thing, I'm not vegan to be vegan or to be part of a community.
In these 5 seconds, Unnatural Vegan mentions the other topic I usually do
I speak directly and pragmatically: the concept of community.
In the past, I have created various videos related to the theme
of vegans as a community, if we were ever a community, and if
will we ever manage to organize ourselves to become a community ..
Unnatural Vegan here claims not to be vegan out of a desire to belong to a community
it is not her goal, the subject does not interest her.
Well, I disagree with what he says and this is not a criticism, but
a point of disagreement which I believe is worth discussing; I am more ambitious.
I am greedier, yes, I want a real community.
Let's take the example of MADD Mothers Against Drunk Driving (* association against drunk driving),
they have at least one office in each of the 50 US states, they have more
50 offices with staff always available. They have them, we don't.
In your opinion in 2016, which message is more important?
Drunk driving or veganism?
Veganism.
Although in the past, perhaps in the 1980s, there has been a discussion as to whether
MADD was an important lobby, today, veganism is a theme that
he absolutely needs to have 50 offices in the United States.
I lived through the time when gay groups have passed
from marginal on the rise, to very influential.
When I lived in Toronto, there were numerous gay offices,
offices with gay rights employees, I remember there was one
specializing in lesbians, there were various offices with different political views
and in case of dispute, local newspapers would go to interview
these foundations.
They were political non-profit organizations, or whatever you want to call them
In case the police commissioner made a homophobic comment, the reporters
they would go to interview these organizations.
"Oh, let's go to that gay organization or that gay rights advocacy group
to get an opinion on this affair. "This is a real community.
This was an important aspect of the city of Toronto in the past,
there was a real gay community, a gay neighborhood, gay buildings and offices,
they had lawyers, discos, they had their festivals,
all this in Toronto, I'm not talking about other cities.
There were numerous well-organized gay communities and journalists
they had the opportunity to go to them.
Certainly our situation would be different if we were at the level of MADD,
or at the level of the Jewish community in British Columbia.
Jews represent a tiny minority in this part of Canada
but they have created solid institutions, they have real organizations,
they offer scholarships and any kind of subsidy one might need in life,
and basically a person is free to go to them, to participate in a picnic and to discuss
face to face with other people about anything, such as a fundraiser or volunteering
or any other idea that could make a difference in this world. I want all of this, I want a real community
and I find no reason to say otherwise or to say that this is not important
I certainly cannot expect veganism to be represented in a satisfactory way,
when the latter is represented as a diet or something that belongs to the private sphere without
political consequences.
I am a Jew by blood connection, but I define myself as a nihilistic atheist. Nonetheless,
for my life and that of my family, it would be more advantageous for me to claim
to be a religious Jew, so that you can participate in temple life
because the Jewish religion here in Canada would offer me a community opportunity
and everything it includes from picnics to retirement homes.
Yes, from picnics to schools to retirement homes, all the steps of life from birth to death,
the entire cycle of life can benefit from the support of the Jewish community,
or Mormon, or other kinds of crazy ideologies that are based on belief
in a god that does not exist, which are based on prayers that will never be heard
unless a person recites them on Youtube,
in that case the fans will be able to listen to them and that's okay.
When I look at communities like Mormons, I always think "I want all of this,
I want what these people have. "
For Mormons, it's a no-brainer to organize a picnic and group together
200 people, you know?
Nor is that enough, for Mormons it is a trivial matter
raise funds for orphans, or organize volunteers,
create a project from scratch and be able to change the world.
I want it all, I want vegans to have it all, I care about all the steps in life
from birth until death, I have a 3 year old daughter who I don't see often
because he lives in Europe and I live in China, but nevertheless I worry and wonder
where will she go to kindergarten, where will she go to school?
Where will I go when I am retired, what a retirement home
will my grandparents go?
From birth to death.
The question of gay rights activism changes with the passing of time.
In recent years, there have been some really tough battles for gay communities,
and nowadays they can be proud and congratulate that many of these battles
have been won.
in Canada? Of course yes. Obviously in Saudi Arabia things are different, there are many countries
where the struggles for basic gay rights are still in their infancy,
but here in Canada no, we are one of the first countries to have established gay marriage,
there was a tough battle over legal issues regarding gay marriage and equal rights for gays and so on,
but these battles have basically been won.
The battles for veganism are still in their infancy.
Where is the office? Where is the vegan neighborhood, the vegan nightclub?
Where is the nursing home, the kindergarten? I want all of that.
I am fundamentally more ambitious than Unnatural Vegan, I am not satisfied
with what you people call "community", I am not satisfied with this group of
middle-aged hedonists, sitting in front of Facebook, giving each other "likes".
I am not satisfied with this group of teens on Instagram taking pictures of their asses
in a bathing suit and they say they want to change the world, none of this satisfies me.
Ok? I want more. Can I get it today? No. Can I have him next? No.
Will I be able to see it before my life ends? Maybe.
MADD managed to settle down within a few years, what a percentage of American people
do you really care about MADD? A minority, a tiny minority
of people who support a foundation that is incredibly successful.
What percentage of people donate money to Jewish temples in Canada?
I don't know, but a very small percentage. In the past I have talked about Sikhism in Canada
representing a tiny religious minority
and as with homosexuals, they don't need to have separate restaurants since it's not a diet,
but therefore they have them! For example in Toronto there is a neighborhood with gods
gay restaurants, although there is no concept of gay food!
For vegans, however, there is a real reason to want to organize
and open a restaurant in a physical place, yes, I want all this, from birth to death,
from building temples to lawyers, to political organizations
up to the foundations recognized to such an extent that in case there is a dispute at the government level,
the newspapers know who to call, I wish there were several
foundations to call for a spokesperson for defending veganism in parliament,
in the newspapers, in the streets, yes I want all this and I recognize
that I don't have it now, and that we're going to have to work really hard
to get it.